#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Machine learning phases of matter
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We start with Roger Melko's famous paper titled Machine learning phases
 of matter.
 Neural networks are used to detect phases and order parameter from raw
 confuguration data generated using Monte Caro methods.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Phase characterization (Image classification) of square-lattice Ising model
 configurations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
ferromagnetic
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
H=-J\sum_{\langle ij\rangle}\sigma_{i}^{z}\sigma_{j}^{z}
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
where 
\emph on

\begin_inset Formula $\sigma_{i}^{z}=\pm1$
\end_inset


\emph default
.
 Configurations are obtained usinf standard Monte Carlo method at various
 temperatures.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Anti-ferromagnetic
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Neural networks are able to identify anti-ferromagnetic spin ordering as
 well which would be relatively difficult task than finding global spin
 polarization.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Possible generalization
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Neural networks trained on square lattice is also useful in identifying
 phase transitions on trangular lattice?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Question : IS it really a different scenario than square lattice?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Part*
My contribution to this knowledge
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nothing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Part*
Important questions to be answered
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Given it is learned on existing configurations and its labels, how do we
 trust it when there are no labels.
 i.e.
 in uncharted territories?
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
